---
tags: [Work /Measurement Canada]
title: Introduction to Measurement Canada and staff
created: '2019-09-24T17:50:57.925Z'
modified: '2019-10-08T18:55:07.139Z'
---

# Introduction to Measurement Canada and staff
###### DATE: 2019-09-24

Use the resources provided in the sheet to learn about safety and hazards in the work place. 

1) Measurement Canada Intranet Site
* http://icweb.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/mcis-simc.nsf/eng/home

2) Health and Safety
* http://icweb.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/mcis-simc.nsf/eng/h_ln00006.html

3) COHS- Hazards
* https://www.ccohs.ca/topics/hazards/physical/#ctgt1-1

## COHS - Hazards
**ALL** electrical systems have the potential to cause harm. Electricity can either be static or dynamic.

### 1) Dynamic Electricity
Dynamic Electricity is the uniform motion of electrons through a conductor(current). 

### 2) Static Electricity
Static Electricity is the accumulation of charge on surfaces as a result of contact and friction with another surface. 

### What kinds of injuries result from electrical currents?
There are four main types of injuries: electrocution (fatal), electric shock, burns, and falls. These can happen in various ways:
  * Direct contact with exposed circuitry. Can interfere with the normal electrical signals between the brain and the muscles. 
  
  * When electricity "arcs" from an exposed conductor through a gas to a person who is grounded. 
    * That would provide a shorter distance to ground.
  
  * Thermal burns including burns from heat generated by an electric arc, and flame burns from materials that catch on fire from a source of heat. Contact burns from being shocked can burn internal tissues while leaving only very small injuries on the outside of the skin

  * Thermal burns from the heat radiated from an electric arc flash. Ultraviolet (UV) and infrared (IR) light emitted from the arc flash can also cause dmaage to the eyes. 

  * An arc blast can include a potential pressure wave released from an arc flash. This wave can cause physical injuries, collapse your lungs, or create noise that can damage hearing.

  * Muscle contractions, or a startle reaction, can cause a person to fall from a ladder. 

  ### Checklist for basic electrical safety
  #### Inspect Cords and Plugs
  * Check extension cords and plugs daily.
  * If an extension cord feels warm get it checked by an electrician

  #### Eliminate Octopus Connections
  * Do not plug several items into one outlet.
  * Pull the plug, not the cord.

  #### Never Break OFF the Third Prong on a Plug
  * Replace broken 3-prong plugs and make sure the third prong is properly grounded.

  #### Never Use Extension Cords as Permanent Wiring
  * Use extension cords only to temporarily supply power to an area that does not have an outlet.
  * Keep extension cords away from heat, water and oil. They can damage the insulation and cause a shock.
  * Do not allow vehicles to pass over unprotected extension cords.












